From Hansel minutes.com. It's Hanselman.
It's a weekly discussion with
web developer and technologists. Scott
Hanselman hosted by Carl Franklin. This
is Laura's Ryan announcing show
number 41 recorded Wednesday, November 15th, 2006.
Support for Hanselman. This is
provided by COVID Smith tools,
makers of code Smith, an
extensible template base code generator
for.net Hansel minutes. Listeners get
$100 off COVID Smith professional
with coupon code H M
100. online@covidsmithtools.com and buy slash
end software red carpet subscriptions.
The most comprehensive solution for
adding connectivity to your.net and
asp.net application with components for
every major internet protocol online@wwwdotandsoftware.com.
Support is also provided by.net
developers journal. The world's leading
dotnet developer magazine online at
www dot  dot com.
In this episode, Scott and
Carl discussed the specifications of
Ws stock. Hi, this is
Carl Franklin and you're listening to
Hansel minutes from Hanselman it's
dot com. I'm here with
Scott as we try to
be every week we try,
we do try. In fact,
sometimes it go away. It's
hard, but know we're here
now. It's hard producing a
show. You you're working this
it's true. We do. Speaking
of, I don't mean to,
you know, waste the listener's
time, but Rory has sent
me some emails lately. He
went looking through iTunes for
the first time at all
the other podcasts out there.
Okay. He says they basically
suck. Huh? Huh. Okay. So
what's the topic today. I
wanted to talk a little
bit about the Ws star
specifications. I think a lot
of people have worked with
web services, but most people
are doing web services in
a file, new web service,
kind of a way from
visual studio and well, a
number of people have messed
with wizzy WSC, the web
services enhancements, right? And more
and more people are getting
into WCF. I thought that
it would be an interesting
thing to spend a few
double speed, 20 minutes of
the listeners, time to talk
about these different specifications that
people keep referring to as
Ws dash star Aina Scott.
The first thing that I
hear from people when we're
talking about Indigo and all
of this stuff is isn't
Ws star like old technology.
And I think there's a
misconception out there that just
because we had toolkits For
Ws star before and now
we have Indigo that somehow
we don't need to pay
attention to these. So let's
clarify that point. So W
has star refers to all
of the Ws, hyphen drafts
specifications, most of which are
refer associated with Ws security.
And these are all things
that make soap work better,
but you kind of have
to back up quite a
bit to the, the, the,
some of the fundamentals. So,
you know, there's XML, but
more specifically there's, what's called
the post scheme of validated
infoset or the PSV. I,
we all know that with
extra melon angle brackets, if
you decide to go and
say left angle bracket Fu
forward slash right angle bracket,
what does that mean? Right.
That means a, a, an
empty element called Fu and
that is semantically equivalent to
having a food element and
then an end food element.
Right? That's the, kind of
the, the obvious example of
these two things mean the
same, right? If you did
a diff between two documents
that each had these cool
kind of two kinds of
elements, if you did a
bite by bite diff, you
would see that they are
different, but if you did
a semantic dif within, I
can ask smart XML, diff
you'd see that they are
semantically the same when you
apply schema to an XML
document and stop thinking about
angle brackets. And think about
the after it's been schema
validated the PSVR, the post
schema validated infoset the information
set that is associated with
that XML, regardless of the
angle brackets and the serialization
format and how it actually
hits the wire, then you
start having something interesting. Hmm.
Now that's XML and that's
the, you know, the Dom
and some of the basics
of XML, but what, what
had to happen before we
got into the Ws star
specifications was of course soap.
But before that we've got
XML, signature, XML, signature, or
XML D SIG digital signature
was a specification that described
how one could Mark an
element within XML with a
cryptographically significant digital signature to
prevent the tampering of that
particular element. So I could
give you an XML document
that maybe had a person
element and underneath person, we
had first name and we
had last name and I
could then apply an ID
to like maybe an ID
with a goo to the
person element. And then later
on somewhere else in the
document, I could have a
digital signature that refers back
via what's called an ID
ref an ID and an
ID RAF are kind of
the primary key and key
reference of the XML set,
right? And I could say
here is a digital signature
associated with the information set,
represented by person so that
if somebody tampered with person,
I could, I could tell
because it was signed, I
could see that someone had
messed around Sorta like a,
a hash or equivalent, right
Then on top of XML
signature, and the techniques for
applying signatures to elements within
documents was XML encryption, which
would let you apply a
cipher value and say, this
information set contained in this
element. And from this element,
then down is now represented
by this XML block. And
this is all way before
soap, right? Right. So Ws
security among other things takes
things like XML signature and
XML encryption, and that integrates
it with soap. So when
I was talking about a
moment ago about I signing
an ID, that ID would
be in a different namespace,
right? Cause you don't want
to actually change the information,
be represented by the person
element. Right? One of the
things that Ws security would
do is, would say, I'm
going to put this information
about the digital signature up
in the header. So it
calls out the difference between
the body of the message
and the header of the
message and co indicates a
way to potentially encrypt or
sign chunks of a document
arbitrarily. So this means that
I could potentially re create,
let's say a, a document
that represents an invoice or
purchase order. And let's say
that it included payment information
right now, you know, most
of our listeners could sit
down on a note pad
and kind of, you know,
bang out a document like
that and come up with
a general sense of what
they think that ought to
look like. Or maybe they
are companies already have an
XML schemer to do that.
But what something like Ws
security allows you to do
is that if you were
passing that combination payment information
and invoice via soap, you
might want to route that
document such that the invoice
was digitally signed to prevent
it from being, being tampered
with. And then you might
want to actually encrypt the
payment information with a different,
a different key, and this
information about what was going
on would go in the
header. And then you might
in the, of the encryption
aspect, remove that whole payment
bit, and you'd insert in
a cipher value so that
the information sets still there,
it's just been encrypted. What
this would mean is that
I could route that document
through multiple departments and wouldn't
have to be concerned about
information that one department might
not want to see. Sure.
I don't want to certainly
want to allow the payment
information to be seen by
the department that manages the,
the inventory Encryption is all
about protection and trends. Exactly.
Right, exactly. Right. So these
XML, digital signature XML, encryption
techniques, and drafts specifications when
applied the way that Ws
security describes them, allows you
to pass these documents around
these kinds of composite documents
and use them in very,
very flexible ways that that
really matched the way your
business works. A good physical
analogy to this would be
like in, in, in Oregon,
we do vote by mail.
So like we just had
our big midterm elections in
the States and everyone said,
well, you know, when did
you vote? You were out
of town. How did you
do that? One in Oregon?
We can vote by mail,
absentee ballot, absentee ballot, everyone
votes by mail. You don't
actually go to the, Oh,
that's cool. Yeah. So they
send us a ballot ahead
of time and you fill
it out and you send
in your information and there's
a secrecy envelope. So there's
an envelope and there's also
another envelope. So I can
have multiple things in that
envelope. And, you know, if
you tamper with one, you
can tell, so there's actually
a separate envelope inside the
main envelope. I mean, envelope
is addressed. The one inside
is done for secrecy purposes.
So in case someone opens
the outer envelope, they won't
accidentally open up the, the
inner envelope. Right? So what
someone can do with things
like Ws security is create
a large envelope full of
other tiny envelope. Some of
which have like a, you
know, a wax stamp, remember
when people used sure. A
messenger and they'd have like
a stamp done in a
wax symbol from the King.
And they would indicate that
this particular envelope had been
tampered with Ceiling wax. They
call it ceiling. That's exactly
right. Thank you for that.
So, Ws security is the
how to do sealed wax
envelopes and documents within the
context of soap using XML
signature and XML encryption. So
we we've all seen wisdom.
Wisdom of course, is the
web services description language that
describes what a particular service
can do. Ws policy as
a specification that is kind
of like wisdom, but it
describes a policy of a
particular web services end point.
So it would say, well,
if you're going to be
doing, if you're gonna be
talking to us, our security
policy is going to indicate
that you need to use
triple Dez and you require
a client certificate if you're
using HTTPS. So the transport
has to be a certain
way. It's kind of wisdom
policy. Yeah. So wisdom is
the here's how to call
it. And the Ws policy
document as a separate document
that I suppose could come
along for the ride inside
of wisdom, that describes all
of the different policies around
how we want things handled.
If you're going to be
doing this, all the security
policies Now in the speeches,
when, you know, I hear
people clicking the stop button
on their iPods and saying
like lurch on the Adams
family, right. Because you know,
when we think of wisdom
and Ws policy, we've all
those files and they're cryptic
and difficult to understand at
first glance. And, you know,
w we might want to
just, just reassure the listener
that, you know, nobody expects
you to write this stuff
by hand, You know? Yeah.
For the, for the most
part, if you're using a
decent toolkit, just like a
good web services toolkit, we'll,
we'll hide the wisdom from
you. Indigo is doing its
best. Now WCF is doing
its best to hide these
things from you. And it
does a really good job.
I mean, awareness of this
is important. And I know
that people will probably disagree
with me, but I just
think it's so important for
someone to go up to
w3c.org and actually read the,
the submissions. I mean, there
are submissions and draft specifications.
Lot of people put a
lot of good work into
these things. This is, these
are joint specifications written by,
you know, like Microsoft IBM
SAP, Bea. This is not
just Microsoft saying how things
ought to be. They, they
wrestle and they're not particularly
hard to read. They really
aren't. Yeah. I mean, like
I'm looking at the Ws
policy one right now, and
it's, it's fairly well organized.
It's got examples. It explains
what we're trying to accomplish.
Yeah. There are people like
Tim Bray who kind of
amended XML who say that
this is way too complicated
and people complain, but it's
not that complicated. Right. There's
a difference between being difficult
and being cool. Hopefully that's
why you're listening to the
show so that, you know,
you can explain it to
us. And not just because,
I mean, I can't explain,
you know, all the Ws
start things in one 20
minute podcasts that's being played
in double speed while someone
races down the Audubon or
whatever, they're listening to this.
Right. Rather than what I'm
trying to accomplish by talking
about it in this particular
podcast is rather than just
saying Ws star. Yeah. And
not really knowing what that
means, understanding that these are
leisure layers, right. There are
layers that came very quickly
though. And I think that's,
what's confusing because we, you
know, for the longest time
there was XML, and then
there were schema that built
on top of things like
DVDs and DCDs, and then
everyone pretty much understood that.
And then we started talking
about document literal, right, passing
around documents. Then you start
thinking about message, passing, request,
response messages, and that in
the context of soap, soap,
being just a, an envelope
technology in a way to
define headers, that's pretty much
all soap is. It's just
like, Oh, here's what an
envelope looks like. And then
suddenly we started getting Ws
security, Ws, secure conversation that
dah, dah, dah, dah, dah,
dah. And it got very
confusing. Yeah. There are things
you probably won't use for
a while, like Ws, atomic
transaction, and you know, things
like that. But the things
that you're are gonna wanna
understand are things like w
security you're gonna want to
understand what's called Ws metadata
exchange. Let's talk about that
one for a sec. So
Ws metadata exchange is what
they call a Ws mix.
And this is a way
to describe what end points
need to know when you
want to interact. So Ws
policy that we just talked
about is the describing a
characteristic of a web service,
like what that web service,
what its capabilities are, what
its requirements are. Well, wisdom
describes things like the end
point address, like where you
can find that web service
describes the messages and the
operations that are supported. And
some of the, like the
network protocols that you would
potentially want to use, you
know, this web service use
That would go on
wisdom. Yeah. Ws Paul, You
might say, and you really
need to be using this
kind of security and these
clients' certificates when you do
that. So Ws policy is
this isn't really about business
rules, is it? Well, it,
it, it's a good question.
It kind of depends. If
the business rule says this
ought to be encrypted and
here's how w policy is
a decent way to describe
that in a programmatic sense.
So where does it tell
about discovery? Right. I want
to be able to ask
the web service, so what
exactly is going to, to,
is it gonna take for
me to talk? Okay. So
the policy says you must
be using this certificate and
that certificate, and you must
encrypt this payload in that
payload. Right, right, right. Yeah.
So Ws, metadata exchange is
a specification that describes how
we're going to work these
kinds of these dialects out,
how we're going to say,
well, I speak Ws policy,
the one that came out
in September of 2004. And
here's how I want to
express that, that bit of
metadata. It's not something you
ordinarily need to worry about
now that, you know, w
WCF kind of handles this
for you, but it's a
way of describing a bit
of metadata. It's a bit,
a way of collecting units
of metadata. Okay. Like wisdom,
policy, schema, and saying all
of this applies to my,
my end point. Okay. So
you've got signatures, you've got
encryption, you've got things like
metadata exchange to describe things
like policy and kind of
tie it all together. So
I have some end point
out there that is going
to speak web services. And
now I want to communicate
back and forth using private
keys. Right. Public private keys.
Yeah. So Carl Franklin has a
service and I will, and
then I'm Scott, I'm going
to talk to the Carl Franklin
service. I'm going to take
my message. And I'll encrypt
it using your public key.
Right. And my private key.
Yep. Right. So we're going
to maintain whether or not
it's been tampered with, and
I'm using information about you
to make sure that things
are decryptable by you. Now,
Ws trust is a specification
that describes the interfaced for
a security token service. Okay.
We talked about STS is
in our talk about info
card. So info card, Microsoft
info card or card spaces
is the client side of
a Ws trust relationship. Okay.
And the trust that you
have between yourself and another
service is represented by that
exchange of tokens. So I'm
going to go and say,
I have some claims about
myself. I claim that my
first name is Scott and
my last name is Hanselman.
And I have a website
here that claim can be
represented by a URI, like
a unique identifier. Most people
are using URLs for this,
but it can be, it's
just a universal uniform resource
indicator or identifier yet. And
I'm going to talk to
a particular security token service
that we might share. So
like, let's say Scott calls
the Carl Franklin service and we,
the trust relationship has to
be set up ahead of
time. What a security token
services is. It's a third
party trusted thing with a
known interface that we can
use. You trust him. I
trust him, we trust each
other. So then I could
also call the Richard Campbell service.
You know, so there's the
Carl service and the Richard Campbell
service. And there's some security
token service that is going
to be handing out tokens.
So what Ws trust is,
is it is the thing
that lets the applications, construct
these message exchanges in a
trusted way. So I can
go and say, Hey, a
security token service. You know,
I have this claim I
want to make about my
name, or maybe I want
to ordinarily you make a
claim about either your identity
or that there's an aspect
about yourself that you, you
feel is important. And it
will return back a token.
That token is a collection
of those claims. And if
you sign that token, then
you've got some authority that
is going to cryptographically, endorse
that token and say, well,
this certificate has been applied
to this token. So now
I've got a security token
that I can make sure
is trusted. And it's, it's
not been tampered with. And
the security token service that
third party service there might
be handled by. You doesn't
necessarily mean to need to
be a third party. It's
that web service that gives
tokens. Okay. So it is
the thing that will, based
on evidence that it has
about trust. You provide it
with some proof, like I
might give it a username
and a password or username
and a password and something
from a smart card. And
then it will return a
token and will generate those
tokens. So in the context
of card space is like
we were talking about last
week or a couple weeks
ago, when you self issue
a card space card, there
is a security token service.
It's just on your machine.
You're basically telling yourself you
trust yourself. And that's where
a self issued token comes
from. There's a little tiny,
local security token service. That's
fine For, for you. But
you know, if somebody's out
in the big wide world
gets that, they're not going
to know if they're going
to trust it or not.
We're hoping that like an
Amazon or visa will start
being a security token service.
So a security token services,
a web service that speaks
Ws trust Have any have
Verisign or any of these
certificate vendors gotten on board
with web service based tokens.
Everyone's on board, but I
don't see, no one has
made a public security token
service out there For the
world. Yet, dude, Scott security,
token service. I can see
it now, do your own
business SSTs. I trust everybody.
So there are these different
ways that one could say,
I'm going a broker trust.
You could have like direct
trust where I'm going to
be the relaying party. And
I'm going to accept all
of your claims or maybe
I'll only accept some of
the claims or maybe I'll
be vouching for someone, right?
I could you trust me?
And then we could kind
of apply the transitive property
of trust. You know, you
trust me, I trust Richard Campbell
and he trusts you buy
a direct broker trust, right?
This also the Ws trust
also indicates the, the concept
of message freshness, the idea
that you want to make
sure that a message doesn't
get replayed. So there's a
thing called a nonce that
prevents someone from T VOing
your web services. Right? Right.
You only want to make
sure that only one shows
up. So the requester that
would be like me, who
is going to call the
car, finding the web service
would go to the security
token web service and make
some claims and say, I
claim these things and you
do you trust me? And
based on their policy and
their tokens, they'll return back
a token to me that
then I could hand to
you, right? And then you
could then talk to the
security token web service and
find out whether or not
you, you buy it, whether
you believe this is the
case. Okay. And then these
trust relationships can be set
up ahead of time. Or
we could have kind of
dynamic trust where you would
trust me because of information
that you received from that
token service. So Indigo WCF
understands these things right in
the box. Ordinarily, you want
it to see any of
these, these angle brackets, but
you will spend a lot
of time, not in the
DLL hell, but you'll spend
it in a config file
Hill. So In WCF, do
we have configurators? Do we
have wizards? Do we have
tools to make it so
that we don't have to
touch the goo? Or do
you actually have to get
in there and do it?
Yeah. So yes and no,
that's a great question. There
were some 99% of things.
There's a config file for
a, we bumped into a
few things where we have
to use the object model
that comes with Indigo in
order to make some changes
and you know, nine, nine
times out of a hundred,
there's some aspect of things
in Indigo and WCF that
you can, you can get
to the config file. You
can replace everything. You know,
if you don't like the
way it does something, you
just yank it out and
say, I'll do that. Yeah.
I do like that about
WCF it's modular. And if
you want to do something
better, you can just plug
it in. But you do
have to spend a lot
of time in the config
files. There are some WinForms
applications that'll do that. I've
seen a couple shy. Koans
showing me some, I think,
more and more, you'll see
tools to do that. When
you pull it, when you
plug in some tools into
visual studio, that will let
you get to those things.
Yeah. I haven't seen kind
of the Uber configurator for
all things, Indigo that lets
me never touch an angle
bracket inside of a config
file yet. But maybe, maybe
a listener will educate us
to that. Yeah. That's what
we need. Alright. Tool vendors.
Are you listening out there?
That's it? Yeah. So that's
basically the Ws star stuff
that you need to know
about in, in, in 20
short minutes. Yeah, that was
good. I think there's a
lot more, but don't be
afraid to read the specs
and it is sometimes hard
to get the, the big
picture. But if you look
at like, like Michelle Bustamante,
his blog, right. Indigo girl,
I look at her blog,
look at the guys like
Indigo Ingo, rammer. Watch the
videos on, on channel nine
about WCF. They're they're really
good. Yeah. And get to
a, one of the, I
design training sessions to those
are actually, he just released.
That's great point. You've all
Lowery at. I design just
a, I designed.net just released
his WCF coding standard. Just
go to the homepage. It's
right there. It's very good.
It's a description of how
he says you should write
your WCF services for simplicity,
ease of calling ease of
configuration. Ease of use. I
spent a long time thinking
about this and working with
the team to also, he's
got his big mammoth example,
WCF sample code. There's so
much stuff up there. If
you go up to the,
just go to idesign.net and
click on downloads, he's got
whole huge sections on WCF
example. After example, after example,
there's will be more examples
there. Then there are really
anywhere else, including Microsoft's own
site. And you've always so
modest too. Yeah. And he'll
tell you that. Yeah. All
right, Scott, that's a show.
Fantastic. Thanks a lot. I
know you're not feeling all
that great today. I'm sort
of coming down with a
cold too, and we apologize
for the lack of links,
but I think it was
a good primer. Anyway, I
think so. Thank you, Scott.
And we'll see you next
week on Hansel minutes. .